# Overall
Sources
- [Kernel Doc](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/cgroup-v2.txt)
- [Redhat Doc](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/resource_management_guide/ch01)


Available subsystems:
- `blkio` sets limit on IO access to and from block devices such as physical drives.
- `cpu` uses scheduler to provide cgroup tasks access to the cpu
- `cpuacct` generates automatic reports on CPU resources used by tasks in a cgroup
- `cpuset` assigns individual CPUs (on a multicore system) and memory nodes to tasks in a cgroup
- `devices` allows or denies access to devices by tasks in a cgroup.
- `freezer` suspends or resumes tasks in a cgroup
- `memory` sets limits on memory use by tasks in a cgroup and generates automatic reports on memory resource used by those tasks.
- `net_cls` tags network packets with a class id that allow the linux traffic controller (`tc`) to identify packets originating from a particular cgroup task.
- `net_prio` provides a way to dynamically set the priority of network traffic per network interface
- `ns` namespace subsystem
- `perf_event` identifies cgroup membership of tasks and can be used for performance analysis.

# Rules
1. A single hierarchy can have one or more subsystems attached to it.
2. Any single subsystem cannot be attached to more than one hierarchy if one of those hierarchies has a different subsystem attached to it already.
3. Each time a new hierarchy is created on the systems, all tasks on the system are initially members of the default cgroup of that hierarchy, which is known as the *root cgroup*.
4. A single task cannot exist in multiple cgroups within one hierarchy, however they can exist in multiple hierarchies. As soon as a task becomes a member of a second cgroup in the same hierarchy, it is removed from the first cgroup in that hierarchy.
5. Any process on the system which *forks* itself creates a child task. A child task automatically inherits the cgroup membership of its parent but can be moved to different cgroup as needed.


# Basic Operations
## Mount cgroup2

```
mount -t cgroup2 none $MOUNT_POINT
```

v2 is fully backward compatible. It does not support all controllers offerred by v1, but those controllers can be bounded to another v1 hierarchy. (i.e. a system can have both v1 and v2 cgroups mounted)

## Create new cgroup
```
mkdir $CGROUP_NAME
```
under the cgroup mount point.

Each cgroup has a read/write interface `cgroup.procs`



# Cgroup namespace
Cgroup namepsace virtualize the view of a process's cgroups as seen via `/proc/[pid]/cgroup` and `/proc/[pid]/mountinfo`
